PEP 791: imath --- module for integer-specific mathematics functions (#4422)
python/peps: peps/pep-0791.rst

Reference Implementation
========================

https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/133909

Open Issues
===========

Module name
-----------

Chosen name seems consistent with other domain-specific mathematical module:
:external+py3.14:mod:`cmath` (for complex numbers).

There is already an ``imath`` project on PyPI, but only with two releases, with
the most recent one four years ago.  Its repository is no longer accessible.
The `Imath <https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/Imath>`_ C++ library
include Python bindings with the same name.

`Polling shows <https://discuss.python.org/t/91337/35>`_ ``intmath`` as another
popular name.  The argument made was that the normal mathematical spelling of
the imaginary unit is ``i``, which makes imath ambiguous.  It also has no conflict
with any PyPI module.  On the other hand, ``intmath`` may be confused with
interval math or numerical integration.

Other proposed names include ``ntheory`` (like SymPy's submodule),
``integermath`` and ``imaths``.

Module scope and possible extensions
------------------------------------

Unless we can just provide bindings to some well supported mathematical library

> like the GMP, the module scope should be limited.  For example, no primality
> testing and factorization.

Reviewer: It's always possible to implement inefficient naive algorithms for primality testing. I would add:

```suggestion
like the GMP, the module scope should be limited.  For example, no efficient primality
testing and factorization.
```

There are possible additions, among proposed in the initial discussion thread
(see also issue
`python/cpython#81313 <https://github.com/python/cpython/issues/81313>`_):

* ``c_div()`` --- for integer ceiling divide, see
  `relevant discussion thread <https://discuss.python.org/t/91269>`_.

> * ``gcdext()`` --- to solve linear Diophantine equation in two variables (the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``gcdext()`` --- to solve linear `Diophantine equation <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diophantine_equation>`_ in two variables (the
```

  :external+py3.14:class:`int` implementation actually includes an extended
  Euclidean algorithm)
* ``isqrt_rem()`` --- to return both integer square root and a remainder (if
  integer isn't a perfect square)
* ``ilog()`` --- integer logarithm, :external+py3.14:func:`math.log`
  has a special handling for integer arguments.  It's unique (with respect to other module
  functions) and not documented so far, see issue
  `python/cpython#120950 <https://github.com/python/cpython/issues/120950>`_.

>   * ``fibonacci()``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``fibonacci()`` --- `Fibonacci sequence <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fibonacci_sequence>`_.
```

PEP: 791
Title: imath --- module for number-theoretic functions
Author: Sergey B Kirpichev <skirpichev@gmail.com>
Sponsor: Victor Stinner <vstinner@python.org>
Discussions-To: Pending
Status: Draft
Type: Standards Track
Created: 12-May-2025
Python-Version: 3.15
Post-History: `12-Jul-2018 <https://mail.python.org/archives/list/python-ideas@python.org/thread/YYJ5YJBJNCVXQWK5K3WSVNMPUSV56LOR/>`__,

>               02-Jun-2019,

Reviewer: Does it work to add a link to an issue?

```suggestion
              `02-Jun-2019 <https://github.com/python/cpython/issues/81313>`__,
```

Author: No.  Linter requires d.p.o or mail.p.o link.

Reviewer 2: Hmm, strictly speaking `Post-History` is the past discussion of _this_ PEP. I think the easiest thing to do is leave the issue out of the header and refer to it somewhere the text if useful.

Author: > It doesn't really add much on its own. 

I think it does.  That thread contains opinions of some core developers (involved in development of that module), who not participated in the first thread.

Would it be ok if I reformat the reference to this issue in the text?

              `09-May-2025 <https://discuss.python.org/t/91337>`__,

Abstract
========

This PEP proposes a new module for number-theoretical, combinatorial and other
integer-valued functions defined for integer arguments, like

> :external+py3.14:func:`math.gcd` or :external+py3.14:func:`math.isqrt`.

Reviewer 3: FYI, I think _combinatoric_ (not combinatorial) is the adjective for the field of combinatorics.   And number theory and combinatorics covers all of the functions being added and that were considered to be added.  I personally like "integer-specific mathematics functions" for the title.

> :external+py3.14:func:`math.gcd` or :external+py3.14:func:`math.isqrt`.

Author: > I think combinatoric (not combinatorial) is the adjective for the field of combinatorics.

FYI: https://reference.wolfram.com/language/guide/CombinatorialFunctions.html.en

Motivation
==========

The :external+py3.14:mod:`math` documentation says: "This module provides access

> to the mathematical functions defined by the C standard."  But as a state of

Reviewer 3: What is "state of the art" supposed to mean here?

art, over time the module was populated with functions that aren't related to
the C standard or floating-point arithmetics.  Now it's much harder to describe
module scope, content and interfaces (returned values or accepted arguments).

For example, the :external+py3.14:mod:`math` module documentation says: "Except

> when explicitly noted otherwise, all return values are floats."  This is not

Reviewer 3: not -> no

Author: Maybe you could just propose suggestions?

longer true:  *None* of the functions listed in the `Number-theoretic
functions <https://docs.python.org/3.14/library/math.html#number-theoretic-functions>`_
subsection of the documentation returns a float, but the

> documentation doesn't say so.  In the proposed module a similar sentence "All
> return values are integers." could tell the truth once.  In a similar way we

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
documentation doesn't say so.  In the proposed `imath` module the sentence "All
return values are integers." would be accurate.  In a similar way we
```

can simplify the description of the accepted arguments for functions in both the
:external+py3.14:mod:`math` and the new module.

Apparently, the :external+py3.14:mod:`math` can't serve as a catch-all place
for mathematical functions: we have also the :external+py3.14:mod:`cmath` and
the :external+py3.14:mod:`statistics`.  Let's do the same for integer-related

> functions.  It would provide shared context, which reduces verbosity in the
> documentation and conceptual load.  It also aids discoverability through
> grouping related functions and IDEs suggesting helpful completions.

Reviewer 4: Tense here is inconsistent: conditional "would provide" vs present tense "aids discoverability". Probably best to use present tense throughout. 
```suggestion
functions.  It provides shared context, which reduces verbosity in the
documentation and conceptual load.  It also aids discoverability through
grouping related functions and makes IDE suggestions more helpful.
```

Specification
=============

> The PEP proposes moving the following integer-related functions in a new

Reviewer 3: I think this should say expose rather than move since the functions are not being removed from `math`.

Author: I don't think it's correct.  Functions are moved.

Soft deprecation means we will support old aliases for an indefinite time.  This may be reconsidered someday.

> The PEP proposes moving the following integer-related functions in a new

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The PEP proposes moving the following integer-related functions to a new
```

module, called ``imath``:

* :external+py3.14:func:`~math.comb`
* :external+py3.14:func:`~math.factorial`
* :external+py3.14:func:`~math.gcd`
* :external+py3.14:func:`~math.isqrt`
* :external+py3.14:func:`~math.lcm`
* :external+py3.14:func:`~math.perm`

Their aliases in :external+py3.14:mod:`math` will be :term:`soft deprecated`.

Module functions will accept integers and objects that implement the
:external+py3.14:meth:`~object.__index__` method which is used to convert the
object to an integer number.

Possible extensions for the new module and its scope are discussed in the

> `Open Issues <Open Issues_>`_ section.  New functions are not part of the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`Open Issues <Open Issues_>`_ section.  New functions are not part of this
```

proposal.

Backwards Compatibility
=======================

As aliases in :external+py3.14:mod:`math` will be kept for an indefinite time
(their use would be discouraged), there are no anticipated code breaks.

Reference Implementation
========================

https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/133909

Open Issues
===========

Module name
-----------

> Chosen name seems consistent with other domain-specific mathematical module:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The chosen name seems consistent with one existing domain-specific mathematical module:
```

:external+py3.14:mod:`cmath` (for complex numbers).

There is already an ``imath`` project on PyPI, but only with two releases, with
the most recent one four years ago.  Its repository is no longer accessible.
The `Imath <https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/Imath>`_ C++ library
include Python bindings with the same name.

`Polling shows <https://discuss.python.org/t/91337/35>`_ ``intmath`` as another
popular name.  The argument made was that the normal mathematical spelling of

> the imaginary unit is ``i``, which makes imath ambiguous.  It also has no conflict

Reviewer 5: imath -> ``imath``

> the imaginary unit is ``i``, which makes imath ambiguous.  It also has no conflict

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
the imaginary unit is ``i``, which makes ``imath`` ambiguous.  It also has no conflict
```

with any PyPI module.  On the other hand, ``intmath`` may be confused with
interval math or numerical integration.

Other proposed names include ``ntheory`` (like SymPy's submodule),
``integermath`` and ``imaths``.

Module scope and possible extensions
------------------------------------

Unless we can just provide bindings to some well supported mathematical library
like the GMP, the module scope should be limited.  For example, no efficient primality

> testing and factorization.

Reviewer: Steve D'Aprano [wrote](https://mail.python.org/archives/list/python-ideas@python.org/message/TAHFVIU7EQ5UYEQ52CCGSK4IYORZYT4U/):

"Primality testing and generation of primes is a bigger job than it might 
seem, probably deserving of an entire library. (Not necessarily in the 
std lib.)"

IMO it's a good summary. See the length of https://mail.python.org/archives/list/python-ideas@python.org/thread/YYJ5YJBJNCVXQWK5K3WSVNMPUSV56LOR/ discussion when it comes to prime numbers.

> There are possible additions, among proposed in the initial discussion thread

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Some possible additions, among those proposed in the initial discussion thread
```

(see also issue
`python/cpython#81313 <https://github.com/python/cpython/issues/81313>`_):

> * ``c_div()`` --- for integer ceiling divide, see

Reviewer: I would prefer "ceil_div" name.

Author: Maybe.  This is just an example of possible module content.  Naming was taken from the gmpy2 and referenced thread.

Reviewer 3: I like `ceil_div` too, but what does it matter?  We're not proposing adding it in this PEP, right?  You don't even have to a give a name at all if you don't want to.

Reviewer: It seems like "cdiv" with no underscore is preferred.

  `relevant discussion thread <https://discuss.python.org/t/91269>`_.
* ``gcdext()`` --- to solve linear `Diophantine equation <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diophantine_equation>`_ in two variables (the
  :external+py3.14:class:`int` implementation actually includes an extended
  Euclidean algorithm)

> * ``isqrt_rem()`` --- to return both integer square root and a remainder (if

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* ``isqrt_rem()`` --- to return both integer square root and a remainder (which is non-zero only if
```

  integer isn't a perfect square)

> * ``ilog()`` --- integer logarithm, :external+py3.14:func:`math.log`

Reviewer: @serhiy-storchaka proposed ilog2() in https://github.com/python/cpython/issues/81313. It may be more useful and common to need ilog2()?

Reviewer 3: Isn't `ilog2(x)`, `x.bit_length() - 1`?  I agree `ilog2` is easier to understand.

But more importantly, why are we debating the contents of this section?  Anything added would probably need another PEP, right?

Author: I would say that all current special handling of integers in log-related functions is useful.  Though, as Tim Peters [said](https://github.com/python/cpython/issues/120950#issuecomment-2297051837) - implementation of an exact ilog() might not worth efforts.  (BTW, the SymPy has integer_log() function.)

But why not move to the new module "inexact" versions?  ilog10 and ilog2 will be helpful.  And then all functions in the math module will share same argument processing.

>   has a special handling for integer arguments.  It's unique (with respect to other module

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  has special handling for integer arguments.  It's unique (with respect to other module
```

  functions) and not documented so far, see issue
  `python/cpython#120950 <https://github.com/python/cpython/issues/120950>`_.
* ``fibonacci()`` --- `Fibonacci sequence <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fibonacci_sequence>`_.

> 

Reviewer: Other proposed functions:

* `as_integer_ratio()`
* `binom(n, k)`: `factorial(n) // (factorial(k) * factorial(n-k))` (but uses more 
efficient algorithm).

```
def as_integer_ration(x):
     if hasattr(x, 'as_integer_ration'):
         return x.as_integer_ration()
     else:
         return (x.numerator, x.denominator)
```

Reviewer 3: `binom` is `comb`, which is already added.

Rejected ideas
==============

There was a brief discussion about exposing :external+py3.14:func:`math.isqrt`
as ``imath.sqrt`` in the same way that :external+py3.14:func:`cmath.sqrt` is
the complex version of :external+py3.14:func:`math.sqrt`.  However, ``isqrt``
is ultimately a different function: it is the floor of the square root.  It
would be confusing to give it the same name (under a different module).

Acknowledgements
================

> Thanks to Tim Peters for reviving the idea of the :external+py3.14:mod:`math`
> splitting.  Thanks to Neil Girdhar for substantial improvements of

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Thanks to Tim Peters for reviving the idea of splitting the :external+py3.14:mod:`math`
module. Thanks to Neil Girdhar for substantial improvements of
```

PEP: 791
Title: imath --- module for number-theoretic functions
Author: Sergey B Kirpichev <skirpichev@gmail.com>
Sponsor: Victor Stinner <vstinner@python.org>
Discussions-To: Pending
Status: Draft
Type: Standards Track

> Created: 10-May-2025

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Created: 12-May-2025
```

Python-Version: 3.15

> Post-History: 02-Jun-2019,

Reviewer 2: Is there a link for this 2019?

Author: Hmm, maybe https://mail.python.org/archives/list/python-ideas@python.org/thread/YYJ5YJBJNCVXQWK5K3WSVNMPUSV56LOR/#YYJ5YJBJNCVXQWK5K3WSVNMPUSV56LOR
is better, this can be linked.

Author: I looks that was my link right above.  I'll add that.

can simplify description of accepted arguments for both the
:external+py3.14:mod:`math` and the new module.

Apparently, the :external+py3.14:mod:`math` can't serve as a catch-all place
for mathematical functions: we have also the :external+py3.14:mod:`cmath` and
the :external+py3.14:mod:`statistics`.  Let's make same for integer-related
functions.  It would provide shared context, which reduces verbosity in the
documentation and conceptual load.  It also aids discoverability through
grouping related functions and IDEs suggesting helpful completions.

Specification
=============

The PEP proposes moving the following integer-related functions [1]_ in a new
module, called ``imath``:

* :external+py3.14:func:`~math.comb`
* :external+py3.14:func:`~math.factorial`
* :external+py3.14:func:`~math.gcd`
* :external+py3.14:func:`~math.isqrt`
* :external+py3.14:func:`~math.lcm`
* :external+py3.14:func:`~math.perm`

Their aliases in :external+py3.14:mod:`math` will be :term:`soft deprecated`.

Modules functions will accept integers and objects that implement the
:external+py3.14:meth:`~object.__index__` method which is used to convert the
object to an integer number.

> Possible extensions for the new module and it's scope are discussed in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Possible extensions for the new module and its scope are discussed in the
```

`Open Issues <Open Issues_>`_ section.  New functions are not part of the
proposal.

Backwards Compatibility
=======================

> As aliases in :external+py3.14:mod:`math` will be kept for indefinite time

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As aliases in :external+py3.14:mod:`math` will be kept for an indefinite time
```

(their use would be discouraged), there are no anticipated code breaks.

Reference Implementation
========================

https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/133909

Open Issues
===========

Module name
-----------

Chosen name seems consistent with other domain-specific mathematical module:
:external+py3.14:mod:`cmath` (for complex numbers).

There is already an ``imath`` project on PyPI, but only with two releases, with

> the most recent one 4 years ago.  Its repository is no longer accessible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the most recent one four years ago.  Its repository is no longer accessible.
```

The `Imath <https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/Imath>`_ C++ library

> include Python bindings with same name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
include Python bindings with the same name.
```

> include Python bindings with the same name.

Reviewer 6: the way this `Imath` is presented here (grouped together with the unmaintained PyPI `imath`) might make it seem like the `Imath` one is also unmaintained / low-usage.
I'm sure it's not intentional - can we make it clearer that this other `Imath` is maintained and has real world usage?

Author: I did some rearrangement.

> `Polling shows <https://discuss.python.org/t/91337/35>`_ ``intmath`` as another

Author: Maybe start a more detailed poll, given the mentioned conflict with Imath bindings?

> `Polling shows <https://discuss.python.org/t/91337/35>`_ ``intmath`` as another

Reviewer 3: Why not just let the SC decide?  You've given them all of the information they need.

> `Polling shows <https://discuss.python.org/t/91337/35>`_ ``intmath`` as another

Author: > Why not just let the SC decide? 

Ok, I think this is fair.  In the end, this will be only a mechanical replacement for Serhiy's pr.  Better to do this once.

popular name.  The argument made was that the normal mathematical spelling of
the imaginary unit is ``i``, which makes imath ambiguous.  It also has no conflict
with any PyPI module.  On the other hand, ``intmath`` may be confused with
interval math or numerical integration.

Other proposed names include ``ntheory`` (like SymPy's submodule),
``integermath`` and ``imaths``.

Module scope and possible extensions
------------------------------------

Unless we can just provide bindings to some well supported mathematical library

> like the GMP, the module scope should be limited.  For example, no primality

Author: It's in "Open Issues".   I think we can make list more exhaustive later.

The idea is to put some rough boundary between possible content of the module and something, that not belongs to it.  I'm with @pfmoore (from the 2018 thread) and think that primaility testing and factorization is outside of the stdlib scope.  (Unless we will not support implementation.)  Do you have a better candidate to replace that?

> like the GMP, the module scope should be limited.  For example, no primality

Reviewer 3: If the scope is "number theory", then you are already saying that it's in scope.  Why not just leave these questions to future PEPs and not worry about it here?  Is `imath` going to be rejected because primality testing *could* be added?

> like the GMP, the module scope should be limited.  For example, no primality

Reviewer 7: >  I'm with @pfmoore (from the 2018 thread) and think that primaility testing and factorization is outside of the stdlib scope.

Actually, in that thread I *supported* `isprime` and `factors`. What I was against was an inefficient implementation. I don't think they necessarily have to be "best of breed" implementations (although I wouldn't object!) but I would want them to be good enough to be used in non-specialist code.

I quite often come up against problems where these functions would be useful. Not in production code (typically in "solve a puzzle in the REPL" types of situation), but certainly real life cases.

As I said elsewhere, though, I think we should keep the scope small for now. Adding functions later is fine, let's not risk the PEP failing over an argument about what's the "best" prime testing algorithm...

> like the GMP, the module scope should be limited.  For example, no primality

Author: Yes, it's close to what I meant; I did update for this section.  I used "production" word, maybe it's not the best.  But I think it fits "being used in real life cases" scenario, e.g. by non-professionals.

> let's not risk the PEP failing over an argument about what's the "best" prime testing algorithm...

Do you think we shouldn't discuss possible extensions for the module and just restrict our attention to existing functions?

testing and factorization.

There are possible additions, among proposed in the initial discussion thread
(see also [5]_):

* ``c_div()`` --- for integer ceiling divide, see [2]_, [3]_.
* ``gcdext()`` --- to solve linear Diophantine equation in two variables (the

>   :external+py3.14:class:`int` implementation actually include extended

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  :external+py3.14:class:`int` implementation actually includes an extended
```

  Euclidean algorithm)
* ``isqrt_rem()`` --- to return both integer square root and a remainder (if
  integer isn't a perfect square)

> * ``ilog()`` --- integer logarithm, currently :external+py3.14:func:`math.log`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* ``ilog()`` --- integer logarithm, :external+py3.14:func:`math.log`
```

>   has a special handling for integer arguments.  It's unique (wrt other module

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  has a special handling for integer arguments.  It's unique (with respect to other module
```

  functions) and not documented so far, see [4]_
* ``fibonacci()``.

Rejected ideas
==============

There was a brief discussion about exposing :external+py3.14:func:`math.isqrt`
as ``imath.sqrt`` in the same way that :external+py3.14:func:`cmath.sqrt` is
the complex version of :external+py3.14:func:`math.sqrt`.  However, ``isqrt``
is ultimately a different function: it is the floor of the square root.  It
would be confusing to give it the same name (under a different module).

Acknowledgements
================

Thanks to Tim Peters for reviving the idea of the :external+py3.14:mod:`math`
splitting.  Thanks to Neil Girdhar for substantial improvements of
the initial draft.

> Footnotes

Reviewer 2: Where possible, please replace these footnotes with inline, direct links. That way it saves people a click.

Post-History: `12-Jul-2018 <https://mail.python.org/archives/list/python-ideas@python.org/thread/YYJ5YJBJNCVXQWK5K3WSVNMPUSV56LOR/>`__,
              02-Jun-2019,
              `09-May-2025 <https://discuss.python.org/t/91337>`__,

Abstract
========

This PEP proposes a new module for number-theoretical, combinatorial and other
integer-valued functions defined for integer arguments, like
:external+py3.14:func:`math.gcd` or :external+py3.14:func:`math.isqrt`.

Motivation
==========

The :external+py3.14:mod:`math` documentation says: "This module provides access
to the mathematical functions defined by the C standard."  But,
over time the module was populated with functions that aren't related to
the C standard or floating-point arithmetics.  Now it's much harder to describe
module scope, content and interfaces (returned values or accepted arguments).

For example, the :external+py3.14:mod:`math` module documentation says: "Except
when explicitly noted otherwise, all return values are floats."  This is no
longer true:  *None* of the functions listed in the `Number-theoretic
functions <https://docs.python.org/3.14/library/math.html#number-theoretic-functions>`_

> subsection of the documentation returns a float, but the

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
subsection of the documentation return a float, but the
```

> documentation doesn't say so.  In the documentation for the proposed ``imath`` module the sentence "All

Reviewer 8: Needs to be wrapped.

PEP: 791
Title: imath --- module for integer-specific mathematics functions
Author: Sergey B Kirpichev <skirpichev@gmail.com>
Sponsor: Victor Stinner <vstinner@python.org>
Discussions-To: Pending
Status: Draft
Type: Standards Track
Created: 12-May-2025
Python-Version: 3.15
Post-History: `12-Jul-2018 <https://mail.python.org/archives/list/python-ideas@python.org/thread/YYJ5YJBJNCVXQWK5K3WSVNMPUSV56LOR/>`__,
              02-Jun-2019,
              `09-May-2025 <https://discuss.python.org/t/91337>`__,

Abstract
========

This PEP proposes a new module for number-theoretical, combinatorial and other
functions defined for integer arguments, like
:external+py3.14:func:`math.gcd` or :external+py3.14:func:`math.isqrt`.

> Suitable functions must be computed exactly, given sufficient time and memory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
This should not be in the abstract.  _The abstract summarizes the PEP_.  Typically everything in the abstract can be found in the PEP, in expanded form.  This sentence doesn't even show up in the PEP.

functions <https://docs.python.org/3.14/library/math.html#number-theoretic-functions>`_
subsection of the documentation return a float, but the
documentation doesn't say so.  In the documentation for the proposed ``imath`` module the sentence "All
return values are integers." would be accurate.  In a similar way we
can simplify the description of the accepted arguments for functions in both the
:external+py3.14:mod:`math` and the new module.

Apparently, the :external+py3.14:mod:`math` module can't serve as a catch-all place
for mathematical functions: we have also the :external+py3.14:mod:`cmath` and
:external+py3.14:mod:`statistics` modules.  Let's do the same for integer-related
functions.  It provides shared context, which reduces verbosity in the
documentation and conceptual load.  It also aids discoverability through
grouping related functions and makes IDE suggestions more helpful.

Currently the :external+py3.14:mod:`math` module code in the CPython is around
4200LOC, from which the new module code is roughly 1/3 (1300LOC).  This is
comparable with the :external+py3.14:mod:`cmath` (1340LOC), which is *not* a

> simple wrapper to the ``libm``, as most functions in the

Reviewer 3: Not sure what this even means  "as most functions in the..."

:external+py3.14:mod:`math` module.

Specification
=============

> The PEP proposes moving the following integer-related functions to a new

Author: > I think a few people have mentioned this now.

Who else?

(their use would be discouraged), there are no anticipated code breaks.

How to Teach This
=================

The new module will be a place to functions, that 1) accept
:external+py3.14:class:`int`-like arguments and return also integers, 2) are
also in the field of arbitrary-precision integer arithmetic, i.e. have no

> dependence on the platform floating-point format or behaviour and/or on the

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
dependency on the platform floating-point format or behaviour and/or on the
```

> platorm math library (``libm``).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
platform math library (``libm``).
```
